README.md, before:

# spring-data-jpa-demo

Demo project using Spring Data JPA on Spring Boot. It shows a user management module storing users and roles in an SQL database.

Here it is the database model of this application:

![](misc/db/db-diagram.jpg)

This project uses:

- Spring Boot 3.0
- Spring Data JPA 3.0
- Spring Framework 6.0
- Spring Batch 5.0
- Liquibase 4.17
- Embedded H2 Database
- Built-on Maven

It requires Java 17+.

## Spring Data JPA and Spring Boot

This project contains some examples about:

- How to build entities and collections on JPA
- How to use a generic class shared between entities
- How to use the auditing feature from Spring Data
- How to use Spring Boot Test in order to test reading and writing interactions with the database

## Maven subprojects

This project is separated into subprojects in order to keep best practices on layers in Spring:

- *myproject-api*: Contains entities, enums and services declarations
- *myproject-db*: Contains the scripts and dependencies needed to build the database
- *myproject-core*: Contains the repositories and services implementations, it is, the business core of the application
- *myproject-web*: Contains the Web controllers and the DTO definitions for the HTTP layer.
- *myproject-batch*: Contains batch configuration and jobs

## Building and running this project

In order to build this project for the first time, use the following command:

    $ ./mvnw clean install
  
 After that, you can run the Spring Boot application using the following command:
 
    $ java -jar myproject-web/target/myproject-web.jar

Commit message:

Spring Boot 3.2 upgrade and model transformation to support H2 and MySQL databases using the Sakila sample database

README.md, after:

# spring-data-jpa-demo

Demo project using Spring Data JPA on Spring Boot. It works using the Sakila sample database structure from MySQL.

Here it is the [database model](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/sakila/en/sakila-structure.html) of this application.

This project uses:

- Spring Boot 3.2
- Spring Data JPA 3.1
- Spring Framework 6.1
- Spring Batch 5.1
- Flyway 9.22 (only for MySQL)
- Embedded H2 Database 2.2
- Built-on Maven

It requires Java 17+ and optionally a MySQL Server 8.0+ in order to deploy the application with the "mysql" Spring 
profile.

## Spring Data JPA and Spring Boot

This project contains some examples about:

- How to build entities and collections on JPA
- How to use a generic class shared between entities
- How to use the auditing feature from Spring Data
- How to use Spring Boot Test in order to test reading and writing interactions with the database

## Maven subprojects

This project is separated into subprojects in order to keep best practices on layers in Spring:

- *myproject-api*: Contains model, enums and services declarations
- *myproject-db*: Contains the scripts and dependencies needed to build the database
- *myproject-core*: Contains the entities, repositories and services implementations, it is, the business core of the application
- *myproject-web*: Contains the Web controllers and the DTO definitions for the HTTP layer.
- *myproject-batch*: Contains batch configuration and jobs

## Building and running this project

In order to build this project for the first time, use the following command:

    $ ./mvnw clean install
  
 After that, you can run the Spring Boot application using the following command:
 
    $ java -jar myproject-web/target/myproject-web.jar
